---
layout: post
title: DIGH5000 - Week 11
---
# Media Archaeology and Transmedia #

This week in class we're learning about media archaeology and transmedia. Our readings are below.

1. Media Archaeology : Approaches, Applications, and Implications," Page 123 - 147, "The Baby Talkie," Machiko Kusahara, https://ebookcentral-proquest-com.proxy.library.carleton.ca/lib/oculcarleton-ebooks/detail.action?docID=769730
2. An Amazing Discovery: Andy Warhol's Groundbreaking Computer Art. Liz Stinson. https://www.wired.com/2014/04/an-amazing-discovery-andy-warhols-seminal-computer-art/
3. Confessions of an ACA-Fan, Henry Jenkins http://henryjenkins.org/blog/2011/08/defining_transmedia_further_re.html


## Kusahara [Not Hypothes.is-able]
This article is on the Baby Talkie, a Japanese optical toy meant to be played on a turntable to create optical illusions accompanied by sound. The article discussed how the author researched the toy's background. Their method of research was almost historical or archival in method, which raises the question of what is media archaeology and how does it differ from media history? Also, if an electrical zoetrope is media, is a non-electrical zoetrope also media?

## Stinson
This article, written for Wired, describes the recent discovery of Andy Warhol's digital artwork, found on floppy disk. Like the last article, this is almost more historic, with the examination of primary sources such as Warhol's floppy disks. This article did address the difficulties of digital obsolescence, and it was cool to hear about how they re-created the software, even if there was only a sentence or two about it. 

### I did further research and the definition of media archaeology is "Media archaeology or media archeology is a field that attempts to understand new and emerging media through close examination of the past, and especially through critical scrutiny of dominant progressivist narratives of popular commercial media such as film and television." From what I can see, it seems like a lot of 'media archaeology' is more digital history studies, but just using a more attention-grabbing name.

## Jenkins
I appreciated that the author provides both an auditory version and a text version. The author also referred to himself in third person though, which is a bit strange. His definition of transmedia storytelling involves a process where "integral elements of a fiction are dispersed through multiple delivery channels for the purpose of creating a unified and coordinated entertainment experience" [not educational, which is interesting]. "Each medium makes its own unique contribution to the unfolding of the story - so the medium is almost the message, or at least directly tied to the message, which is interesting. Or, at least, the message is affected by the media. 
