---
layout: post
title: DIGH5000 - Blog Post #7
---
# Week 8 #
This is the eighth of my blog posts for DIGH5000, though it is the ninth (tenth?) week. This week is games! 

1. Bogost, I. (2011, May 3). Persuasive Games: Exploitationware. Gamasutra. https://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/134735/persuasive_games_exploitationware.php
2. Sanders, R., & Sanders, A. (1995). HISTORY OF AN AI SPY GAME: SPION. CALICO Journal, 12(4), 114-127. https://www.jstor.org/stable/24147592?seq=1
3. [Supplementary] Blume, C., Schmidt, T., & Schmidt, I. (2017). An imperfect union? Enacting an analytic and evaluative framework for digital games for language learning. Zeitschrift Für Fremdsprachenforschung, 28(2), 209–231.
4. [Supplementary] McGonigal, J. (2011). What Exactly Is a Game? In Reality Is Broken: Why Games Make Us Better and How They Can Change the World(pp. 20–34). Penguin

## Bogost ##
This blogpost looks at gamification and argues that both the idea of 'games' themselves and their core tenets need to be re-framed. Bogost also discusses the use of the term "Serious Games" and its benefits along with its pitfalls. He also mentions the etymology behind gamification, and the power that the word has through its abstraction/lack of clarity regarding action. He boils the allure of gamification down to its engagement power, regardless of whether the gamifier has actually turned the product/service into a game or into a points system.

My personal hot take: that this person is too stuck in academia. While their points are valid and good for those studying games (because he is right), in the world outside academia, people want things that work. Educators want things that engage and teach their kids, politicians want things that serve their purposes, etc. So while he is right that "such change is undesirable," I also ask, what change is he referring to? The switch between games and gamification, getting rid of gamification and introducing games as he seems to think they are? 

Sometimes it feels like a lot of academics ignore the power structure structures/dynamics of capitalistic society. Yes, he is right that games can be powerful and make change and that threatens the power structure and that's great and is what should happen, but also, when introducing those types of games to the very institutions that support and enable capitalism, why on Earth would you think they would ever actually introduce games? Obviously they're not going to want to, because they can be used to challenge their power strctures. Of course they're not going to introduce or patronize things that would challenge their institutional power.

His points regarding marketing are similar.Yes, games can over a myriad of benefits for advertising. But as he also notes, current marketing strageties are meant to be easy and repeatable with different products, because companies don't put a lot of effort into a single product anymore, they want to 'diversify' their product offerings and sell to the widest audience possible. This whole article feels like he's a 50-year-old dad who's thinking of advertising, etc. in reference to past marketing models, in a way that doesn't actually acknowledge the current situation. Which is rather harsh of me, but it's the sense that I am getting from this reading. 


## Sanders and Sanders ##
I had trouble accessing this article, so instead, I've decided to talk about the fact that I think games as DH have a lot of potential, and I hope that the experiment that the presenter chooses will be fun!

