---
layout: post
title: DIGH5000 - Blog Post #4
---
# Week 5 #
This is the fourth of my blog posts for DIGH5000, though it is the fifth week. Last week, a classmate and I presented on VR and AR, which was fun. There are so many outreach applications for virtual and augmented reality, and it was interesting to dive into how they can be used in academia as well. So far in the course my favourite parts have been the experiments - the classmate doing VR set up a virtual room for us to explore, and then for my experiment I showed the class Google Expeditions and their AR education programs, which are really cool. It's nice to have a practical component to demonstrate some of the possibilities of the topic being discussed each week.

This week, we're focusing on text analysis, data mining, and visualiztion. There was only one reading assigned, which was 

1. Clement, Tanya, "Text Analysis, Data Mining, and Visualization." Literary Studies in a Digital Age. https://dlsanthology.mla.hcommons.org/text-analysis-data-mining-and-visualizations-in-literary-scholarship/

Hpothes.is did not work for me on this article (I think I messed it up though because I could see my classmates annotations).

## Clement ##
This was an interesting choice for a reading. It was fairly clear and concise, which is always nice for an academic article. It begins by defining what technology is, and how technology has been used in textual analysis in the past. It has an interesting quote where it says:

"In labeling self-reflection a technology, I take my cue from Richard Poirier, who claims, “All literature is to some extent aware of itself as a technology” (113), and from Martha Nell Smith, who defines technology as “the means by which we accomplish various ends—the tools and devices on which our critical suppositions rely” (“Computing” 836)". While a bit of a messy quote, given that there are two quotes in one sentence, it is (in my opinion) an important idea. In (very basic) archaeology, writing is considered an indication of civilization/statehood (civilization as a whole is a problematic concept, and writing does not define statehood, ie: with the Inca), but historically, writing has been considered a cornerstone for building statehood/kingdoms/etc. Writing as a technology is an important concept, and I also like the definition of technology that they include - it's open-ended and could encompass a great variety of things as technology, which is important.

Frustratingly, they assume that the reader knows and understands what "traditional close reading practices" are, which this reader had to Google. They briefly discuss what falls into the categorie of "distance reading," but a more in-depth or clearer explanation would have been beneficial. The use of graphs is nice though, as it helps to illustrate the points being made regarding the usefulness of text analysis data. Distance text analysis is not something that I have much experience with, so it's interesting to read about. Hopefully the experiment this week will engage with that a bit.

One major thing that bugged me about the reading: nowhere did she say why she was examining Gertrude Stein's "The Making of Americans" - she just said that she was. I am curious to know why she did, and whether the choice of reading informed the text analysis/data mining/visualization methods, or if the need to showcase all three elements drove the choice. According to Google, the book (full title: The Making of Americans: Being a History of a Family's Progress), "traces the genealogy, history, and psychological development of members of the fictional Hersland and Dehning families." It was originally published in 1925. None of this information is presented to us in the essay, and I am extremely curious to know why Clement chose this book.


