---
layout: post
title: DIGH5000 - Blog Post #3
---
# Week 3 #
This is the third of my blog posts for DIGH5000. This week we focused on surveillance and the ethics of surveillance and data collection, with two main readings.

1. Galič et al., "Bentham, Deleuze and Beyond: An Overview of Surveillance Theories from the Panopticon to Participation." Philosophy of Technology. https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s13347-016-0219-1.pdf
2. Jules B., Mitchell, Dr. V., Summers, E. "Documenting the Now: Ethical Considerations for Archiving Social Media Content Generated by Contemporary Social Movements: Challenges, Opportunities, and Recommendations" [White paper]. April 2018, 1-12. https://www.docnow.io/docs/docnow-whitepaper-2018.pdf

## Galič et al. ##
This reading was extremely dense, but provided a useful overview of various surveillance theories, including Bentham and Foucault. It discussed their various panopticons and their subsequent iterations. It was a PDF and did not allow us to use Hypothes.is (or at least I was not able to figure it out), and I think that my understanding of this reading would have been greatly enhanced by seeing other people's comments.

During class though there was an interesting discussion on how that related to data capture and surveillance via social media, as well as the ethics of non-consentually capturing information generated via social media use, etc.

The presentation for this topic was also very interesting - the classmate presenting made a video to show what kinds of data can be collected just by accessing the internet throughout the day, which spurred a discussion of what Google thinks we are/do/behave based on their collection of data via ad preferences. It was both highly entertaining and extremely creepy - for several people, Google knew they were a grad student and had some basic information right, though at other times they were extremely wrong, especially when someone worked a job that required diverse research interests. 

## Jules et al. ##
This reading was interesting as it discussed the ethical implications of archiving social media content, specifically as it pertained to contemporary social movements. This paper specifically focused on protest mobilization achieved through Twitter, and the ethics and dangers of archiving that data. They also briefly addressed how bots play into the equation, both in regards to pro-protest and anti-protest bots. 

Interestingly, they advocated for the ethical collection of social media data, but also stated that "documentation efforts must go beyond what can be collected without permission from the web and social media," which is unethical. My personal opinion is that except for special cases, data should only be archived with consent if the user is alive and still active on the social media platform being investigated. 

There were also a lot of ties (at least as presented to their paper) between non-consentual archiving or observation of data for research purposes and early anthropology - both seem to be researching 'at' a community or individual and acting in a very imperial way.

The presenter (unnamed because I don't know if they would be okay with being named) also provided a fun way of sneakily collecting data - Buzzfeed quizzes. It's an aspect that I hadn't considered (ie: that they might collect that data) because I wouldn't have guessed it would be useful data, but apparently it is data that is often sold, which is concerning. 
