---
layout: post
title: DIGH5000 - Blog Post #7
---
# Week 8 #
This is the seventh of my blog posts for DIGH5000, though it is the eighth (ninth?) week. This week, is sound design, with an assigned video and reading.

1. The Beautiful Lies of Sound Design | Tasos Fratzolas | TEDxAthens: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jDy5j0c6TrU&feature=youtu.be&ab_channel=TEDxTalks
2. Sound and Digital Humanities: reflecting on a DHSI course, John F. Barber, http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/10/1/000239/000239.html

## Fratzolas ##
This is a talk from TedxAthens about sound design and the use and creation of sound effects. Fratzolas discusses various ways of creating sound, as well as the power of silence in movies. He also mentions that there is no such thing as true silence, which is one of those things that makes sense but that you don't really think about. Fratzolas says that what we have instead (in film and in real life) is room tone - all the sounds in a room that contribute to its ambience and the sense of silence. Fratzolas also briefly discusses how sound effects tap into memory, as well as the concept of 'acousmatic' or off-screen sound. He dates its history back to Plato and his behind-the-screen lecturing style, which I did not know about until this video. I always enjoy when non-academic paper readings are assigned, and I enjoy it even more so when the assigned items are both engaging and informative, as this one was. It was really cool to hear how sound effects are mimicked through the use of other materials, as well as to learn about how natural-seeming silence in movies is created. I do wish that he would have touched more on how sound interacts with memory, though.


## Barber ##
This essay is a review of the DHSI's 'Sound and Digital Humanities' summer course at the University of Victoria, in 2014. The reviewer seems to be the course's creator, so it's not just a review of the course content but also how it was implemented and received, which is really interesting. Barber mentions DH's over-reliance on visual data/analysis/imagery and under-use of auditory methods, which seems to be a common theme in both DH and the wider world. I've included some notes/theoretical frameworks down below for my personal use later on - my MA project may involve the use of sound, and so I want to keep these notes for later. 

Notes for me to look into later:
"participants considered Steven Feld's attention to “the primacy of sound as a modality of knowing and being in the world”  [Feld 2003, 226]. This opened our discussion to different types of listening: “deep” or “agile” listening proposed by Michael Bull and Les Beck, acousmatic listening proposed by Pierre Schaeffer, and ambient listening proposed by Brian Eno. More information in the “Theoretical Framework” section, below."

Perhaps an overarching course outcome would be the realization that even in the visual context of contemporary life, sound remains a powerful sensory input, and a fundamental factor in many arenas of inquiry for DH: speech, writing, literature, reading, narrative, storytelling, and listening.[6]
26
Regarding the power of sound as a sensory input, film editor and sound designer Walter Murch says sound is the earliest sensory stimulus available to humans, switching on “four-and-a-half months after we are conceived.” Newborns rely predominately on hearing before their visual acuity has stabilized [Murch 2005].
27
Communications theorist Marshall McLuhan echoes this point when he argues sound provided the first frame of reference through which humankind attempted to create and communicate a world view. McLuhan, with his son and collaborator, Eric, describes two spaces, acoustic and visual, in which humankind has contextualized itself with different results: “Acoustic space . . . is spherical, discontinuous, non-homogeneous, resonant, and dynamic. Visual space is structured as static, abstract figure minus a ground; acoustic space is a flux in which figure and ground rub against and transform each other”  [McLuhan and McLuhan 1988, 33].[7]
28
Acoustic space is a world awash in sounds. With aural information emerging from all directions, and with no opportunity to shut off or organize the constant stream of sound, pre-writing humankind, the only to experience acoustic space, according to McLuhan, perceived its world as both surrounding and inclusive, a permeable extension of itself, and they of it [Levinson 1999, 5–6].
29
For McLuhan, “The ‘content’ of any medium is always another medium. The content of writing is speech, just as the written word is the content of print, and print is the content of the telegraph. If it is asked, ‘What is the content of speech?,’ it is necessary to say, ‘It is an actual process of thought, which is in itself nonverbal’”  [McLuhan 1964, 23–24]. Speech, as the expression of thoughts and feelings by articulate sounds, incorporates abstract thought and extends its ability to explain and/or characterize human agency and situation.
30
Speech tamed the acoustic wilderness by translating abstract thought into communicable ideas. Storytellers produced explanations for the sounds in acoustic space and wove them into larger narratives that helped explain the presence and purpose of humankind. Orality provided a means to preserve and share cultural histories and memories, a human tendency documented by Joseph Campbell who investigated the reenactment of myths as ritualistic participatory drama, often involving narrative, music, and/or other sound sources, by cultures around the world [Campbell 1949].
31
Alphabets and writing (and printing and reading), in turn, by visualizing its sounds, incorporate and preserve speech while extending its reach beyond the transmission range of the human voice. With the advent of writing, during the height of ancient Greece, speech was visualized, replacing the speaker’s voice with text. Printing and distribution of texts, encouraged humankind to see and read (literally and figuratively) the world as a series of discrete pieces, letters and words strung like beads on a linear continuum running from the past, through the present, toward the future. As this emphasis on visualization continued with film, television, and the World Wide Web, the visual was elevated as the primary sensory input. Sound was relegated to a secondary, augmenting role to the visual.[8]
32
However, even as new visual media replaced / extended the older orality, they incorporated its content: spoken narrative, storytelling, drama, and literature, and various literary practices associated with their creation and consumption. Thus, speech (as sound), with its origins in abstract thought and presentation, is the oldest medium and the most prevalent form of human communication. It claims a presence in most all media that follow [Levinson 1999, 1981]. As James O’Donnell notes, “the manuscript was first conceived to be no more than a prompt-script for the spoken word, a place to look to find out what to say . . . to produce the audible word”  [O'Donnell 1988, 54].
33
Sound, despite its secondary relation to visual, still conveys deep, rich information capable of prompting cognitive and emotional responses. McLuhan likens sound to a “subliminal echo chamber” capable of evoking memories/associations long forgotten or ignored [McLuhan 1964, 264].
34
According to Smith, sound is pervasive. Most humans, he says, “live immersed in a world of sound . . . sound is at once the most forceful stimulus that human beings experience, and the most evanescent”  [Smith 2003, 127, 128]. Most academic disciplines are vision-based, he continues, not only in the materials they study, but in the theoretical models they deploy to interpret those materials. Sound, says Smith, as an object of study, has been neglected. This is unfortunate, he concludes, as knowing the world through sound is fundamentally different from knowing the world through vision [Smith 2003, 129]. Stephen Feld concurs, noting “the primacy of sound as a modality of knowing and being in the world”  [Feld 2003, 226]. In short, sound provides a place in which embodied social and cultural traces can be carried, often without the awareness of their bearers [Schafer 1977].

Listening
35
Experiencing sound, and the information it carries, involves listening, the conscious processing of auditory stimuli. Gary Ferrington likens listening to “theater of the mind,” where every individual listener is her own dramaturge [Ferrington 1994]. Alan Hall notes listening opens a “portal through which a deeper, often inarticulate, consciousness can be glimpsed”  [Hall 2010, 99]. Such glimpses may promote imagination, interaction, even immersion. Tim Crook says sound very effectively prompts life from little details “seen” in the mind's eye [Crook 1999, 8].
36
Michael Bull and Les Beck suggest by considering sound we open new ways of thinking about and appreciating the social experience, memory, time, and place — the auditory culture — of sound [Bull and Beck 2003, 12]. They advocate “deep listening” or “agile listening,” both of which involve “attuning our ears to listen again to the multiple layers of meaning potentially embedded in the same sound.” Deep listening, they say, also involves “practices of dialogue and procedures for investigation, transposition and interpretation”  [Bull and Beck 2003, 3–4]. They argue several outcomes from deep listening.
Sound makes us rethink our social experience, its meaning, nature, and significance.
Sound makes us rethink our relation to community.
Sound makes us rethink our relation to others, ourselves, and the spaces and places we inhabit.
Sound makes us rethink our relationship to power [Bull and Beck 2003, 3-4].
37
In addition to deep or profound listening, we might also consider acousmatic, ambient, or profound listening. Sound artist Francisco López uses the term “profound listening” to denote listening without constraints in order to explore and affirm all the information inside any sound [López 2004, 82–83].
38
Ambient listening, as defined by Brian Eno, principal innovator of ambient music, is an accompaniment to life activities, often a background or secondary activity. Eno defines ambient music as “new music” whereby “compositional attention” to technological production is key [Eno 2004, 95]. The goal of ambient music is to produce music that offers “an atmosphere, or a surrounding influence: a tint”  [Eno 2004, 96]. Since the music is designed to be predictable, attentive listening is not required for best experience. The desired outcome is to have the music become part of the background against which people live their lives.
39
On the other hand is acousmatic, defined by Pierre Schaeffer, electroacoustic musician-theoretician and pioneer of musique concrète, as “a noise that one hears without seeing what causes it”  [Schaeffer 2004, 77]. With acousmatic listening we no longer are concerned with the Cartesian split between objective and subjective reality. Instead, it is the listening itself, as a process, that becomes the phenomenon to be studied. The question “What am I hearing?” asks one to describe the perception itself, not simply the external references. The acousmatic situation generally precludes any relation with what is visible, touchable, measurable [Schaeffer 2004, 78].
40
The study of acousmatics is important for several reasons, according to Schaeffer. Acousmatics, he says, emphasizes the “subjectivities” involved in listening, focuses attention on the “sonorous object,” what we are hearing, rather than the sound source, and strips sound back to a state beyond interpretation [Schaeffer 2004, 78, 79, 81]. When listening to sounds which are hidden from view we take interest in them for themselves. We can gain knowledge of these sounds, we can analyze and describe them, and, we hope, we can transmit this knowledge.
41
Sound is, thus, relative to our listening experience. This point is considered by Brian Kane, in his scholarly study of Schaeffer's theory of acousmatics, as he argues for acousmatic listening to take a central role in sound and music aesthetics, sound studies, literature, and philosophy from a number of methodological perspectives — historical, cultural, philosophical, and musical [Kane 2014].[9]
