---
layout: post
title: DIGH5000 - Week ? and Final Project Test
---
# Final Project Test #

This will be where I test the map for my final project. I've used Snazzy Maps, which is a "repository of different color schemes for Google Maps aimed towards web designers and developers" that allows you to create personalized maps.

<iframe src="https://snazzymaps.com/embed/274715" width="100%" height="600px" style="border:none;">

The use of the washed-out land masses and the vibrant blue of the water is a deliberate choice, to make it easier to focus on the waterways (as that is where all the sites will be). 

# Digital Storytelling #

This week in class we're learning about digital storytelling. Our readings are below, but unfortunately they were not Hypothes.is compatible. 

1. Glynda A. Hull and Mira-Lisa Katz. Crafting an Agentive Self: Case Studies of Digital Storytelling. https://www-jstor-org.proxy.library.carleton.ca/stable/40171717?seq=1#metadata_info_tab_contents
2. Daniel Meadows. Digital Storytelling: Research-Based Practice in New Media, https://journals-sagepub-com.proxy.library.carleton.ca/doi/abs/10.1177/1470357203002002004

## Hull and Katz ##
This reading examines the use of multi-media and multi-modes to express a agency-based story, through a case study with two people involved with DUSTY (Digital Underground Story Telling for Youth). The agency framework that they provide focuses on its use in creating agency for 'second-chances' and pivoting the trajectory of their lives.

While I think that the technology in this study and the use of digital storytelling is great, I think the study more addresses the need for after-school and alternative education programs within lower-income communities. The authors don't clearly address it, but it is clear to me that to both the participants, having a place to go and spend scheduled time doing a fun and interesting activity is the real benefit of this study and the DUSTY lab, as opposed to just the technology and its use in digital storytelling. It would have been nice if they had addresses this, as I think it's something that is important and that should be more clearly stated. Also, the role of digital humanities in these spaces as a way to formulate fun and interesting activities is also integral to the participants' enjoyment, and I think this case study could be a useful piece of evidence in supporting that.

## Meadows ##
This reading addresses the use of digital storytelling in journalism, focusing on the Digital Storytelling pilot run for the BBC in Wales. The Digital Storytelling project focuses on personal stories and is made of videos of still-motion pictures, which are meant to be published online. This project is from 2001, and at the time was impressive, though it seems to now be a fairly common practice online (either through gifsets or other still-motion photo sets). 




