---
layout: post
title: DIGH5000 - Week 11
---
# Social Media #

This week in class we're learning about social media. Our readings are below.

1. Millard, J. (2009). Performing Beauty: Doves "Real Beauty" Campaign. Symbolic Interaction, 32(2), 146–168. naked selfies”: Peer mediation, normativity and the construction of identity online. Cyberpsychology: Journal of Psychosocial Research on Cyberspace, 9(1). https://onlinelibrary-wiley-com.proxy.library.carleton.ca/doi/full/10.1525/si.2009.32.2.146 [Hypothes.is-able only through that link]
2. Harper, B., & Tiggemann, M. (2007). The Effect of Thin Ideal Media Images on Women’s Self-Objectification, Mood, and Body Image. Sex Roles, 58(9-10), 649–657. https://ocul-crl.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/permalink/01OCUL_CRL/1vru3a1/cdi_proquest_journals_225365894


## Millard ##

This article discusses Dove's "Campaign for Real Beauty," examined as beauty through performance. It's been several years since I've seen the material discussed in the article, but some critiques that I remember about this campaign were the lack of disability representation and the lack of trans representation. I don't think anyone was visibily disabled in the ads, and nor do I recall any trans women or gender-nonconforming femmes. I think they also only included light-skin or lighter-skin people of colour, and I recall very few birthmarks or moles (but there were freckles, which are considered more attractive). In general, the people shown were also still conventionally attractive (which is a point made later in the article). While it included a variety of body sizes and skin colours, the advertisements still lacked a lot true diversity. The article draws from interviews with sixteen Canadian women. One thing that I liked about the article was that the author firmly stated their posisition of being a woman and coming from Western-ized beauty standards. It would have been nice if she had also stated that she was a white woman, as further research revealed, as that is also important. However, I do like this newer trend of authors explicitly stating their positioning in regards to their research. 

## Harper and Tiggemann ##
This article discussed the effect of thin ideal media on women's self-objectification, mood, and body image. One of my classmates made a great point that this study cites material that deals with race in relation to women's exposure to beauty as 'white' in media yet does not mention race at all. Later in the article, the authors also mention that "exposure to video footage of women playing sports that emphasize leanness elevated self-objectification in white adolescent women," but they don't dive deeper into this statement. The article is interesting, and their conclusions make sense, but I think that its ignorance of race was a large detractment from their work. 

While this week's readings were interesting, I personally would have been more interested in the more digital side of social media - these readings felt like they were discussing the dangers of advertising. While there is definitely a connection between social media and advertising, I would have preferred more clearly connected readings.
