---
layout: post
title: DIGH5000 - Blog Post #5
---
# Week 6 #
This is the fifth of my blog posts for DIGH5000, though it is the sixth week. This week, we're focusing on mapping and network analysis, both of which promise to be extremely interesting.

There are several readings assigned, with a few choices. For mapping, we have the option of:

1. Caquard, Sébastien. "Cartography I: Mapping narrative cartography." Progress in Human Geography 37, no. 1 (2011): 135-144. 
 https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/0309132511423796
2. Kwan, Mei-Po. “From Oral Histories to Visual Narratives: Re-Presenting the Post-September 11 Experiences of the Muslim Women in the USA.” Social and Cultural Geography 9 no. 6 (2008): 653-669.

As well as the option to check out several applications of mapping, including:

1. The mobile app 'Whose Land'
2. Mapping LGBT+ Bristol: https://outstoriesbristol.org.uk/map/#osb/kyp/205
3. Map of Mass Graves: https://mapadefosas.mjusticia.es/exovi_externo/CargarInformacion.htm

For network analysis, we were assigned one reading, with the option of an additional reading

1. Weingart, Scott (2011) “Demystifying Networks. Part 1” http://www.scottbot.net/HIAL/index.html@p=6279.html
2. Tommaso Venturini (2010) Building on faults: How to represent controversies with digital methods


# Mapping #
## Caquard ##

I liked this reading because it was very informative on the various ways that nations use mapping to build a sense of nationalism/unity, which is something that seems obvious but that I had never really considered in-depth. I also enjoyed the idea of story maps - maps that describe spatial representations based on our personal experiences within the area on the map. There's at art piece at the National Art Gallery in Ottawa where an artist mapped locations in Downtown Calgary based on what she heard as she was walking by. It's a very unique way of sharing spatial experiences with other people, but also a powerful tool for 'walking a mile in someone's shoes,' so-to-say.

I appreciated Caquard's frankness regarding Google and Microsoft's use of free volunteer labour to create their maps. Caquard states that "[b]oth Microsoft and Google’s strategies emphasize the trend toward the exploitation of crowdsourcing dedicated to the betterment of private-sector interests," and I think that exploitation is a key word - they exploit free labour and profit off it. Caquard also mentions that though participants are 'allowed to keep the ownership of their data,' participants "are granting to Microsoft free permission to use, copy, distribute, display, publish, transcode and otherwise modify [their] submission’ (Microsoft, 2011; Caquard, 2011). So basically, they technically own their data, but they also really don't, as Microsoft (and Google) have free use of the data. As Caquard mentions, that raises a lot of questions around ownership, ethics, etc. 

# Network Analysis #
## Weingart ##
This was a very nice introduction to network analysis - it was simple and clear, which is always great when you have no idea what you're going to be reading about. It was also specifcally geared towards those in digital humanities with little background in math or networks, which is really great as that sums up the majority of our class. Weingart also makes a great point that when you're first given a tool, you tend to overuse it, even when it's not the best tool for the job. He also speaks about the dangers of appropriating methodology without fully understanding it or its purpose. I really enjoyed how irreverant this reading was - most authors treat their subject material extremely seriously, so it's nice to read someone who is clearly having fun with how they explain things. "Stuff (presumably) exists. Eggplants, true love, the Mary Celeste, tall people, and Terry Pratchett’s Thief of Time all fall in that category" is absolutely hilarious, and it makes the article a lot of fun to read. I've found this irreverance a lot more in DH readings than in traditional history readings, and it's always great to see. 
