---
layout: post
title: DIGH5000 - Blog Post #2
---
# Week 2 #
This is the second of my blog posts for DIGH5000. This week we focused on code, with two main readings.

1. Klein, Lauren. ‘Code.’ Digital Pedagogy in the Humanities. https://digitalpedagogy.mla.hcommons.org/keywords/code/
2. Watters, Audrey. “Men (Still) Explain Technology to Me: Gender and Education Technology.” Hack Education. http://hackeducation.com/2015/03/11/men-still-explain

## Klein ##
For the Klein article, we were able to use Hyopthes.is to comment on it. It was actually really great to be able to see everyone's opinions as I went through the article (more on that in my last blog). My annotations can be found under the username jaimesimns. Overall, I thought she raised some great points, such as:

"By exposing how the technical and the humanistic converge in the objects and processes of our everyday lives, a both/and pedagogy of code might allow our global problems to be better understood, if not ever to be entirely resolved." I think that this point/the entire paragraph is really important, especially in regards to understanding the role that technology plays in our life, both implicitly and explicitly, especially because technology (including code) is not objective - it contains our biases and assumptions (link to an interesting thread about racism in zoom's facial recognition software: https://twitter.com/colinmadland/status/1307130447671984129)

However, there are also some points that I disagree - namely the feasibility of teaching students to code in a meaningful way.
"Is it an understanding of how to think algorithmically, so as to better comprehend how certain tasks can be abstracted into a series of steps? Is it a familiarity with the basic components of programming languages, so as to be able to understand how code is structured and produced? Is it the knowledge of a specialized programming language, one with specific applications in a particular field? Or is it the more experiential knowledge of what it feels like to move from defining functions and assigning variables to running executable code?" This section/the general idea of this piece kind of makes me laugh. When most school districts barely teach a second language (and very few people graduate high school with the ability to hold a conversation in that second language), why do they think they'll be able to teach students another language to a degree that would be useful/go beyond the most basic? I started learning French in kindergarten, and continued into university. While my French is okay, it's certainly not great - if I tried to talk to anyone who spoke French as a first language, they would probably laugh at me (and rightly so). I have no faith in the education system to ever teach any actual useful code, at least to a degree that would be needed to keep the skills after.

## Watters ##
For the Watters article, we were not able to use Hypothes.is, which was unfortunate. It would've been nice to hear other people's opinions, especially as we didn't have the chance to discuss the reading in-depth in class. These are my notes:
-	She kept on saying men – but it was never ‘white’ men, even though that was clearly the assumption. It is important to specify, because people of colour are often just as, or more so, excluded or disparaged against
-	Fully agree that “Gamergate is really just one manifestation of deeper issues – structural issues – with society, culture, technology. It’s wrong to focus on just a few individual bad actors or on a terrible Twitter hashtag and ignore the systemic problems. We must consider who else is being chased out and silenced, not simply from the video game industry but from the technology industry and a technological world writ large.”
-	Again, she doesn’t say WHITE men when she most likely means white men.
-	Loved the “tech does not negate hierarchy, hist, privilege, power; it reflects, channels, concentrates it”
-	Also, “purport to be identity free, but if they are, it is because it is assumed to be male, white, and maybe Californian” - great line, and accurate for my experiences in gaming. Since my name is gender-neutral, it is assumed that I am male unless I clearly gender myself otherwise
-	The idea of ‘men explain the history of computing’ is very much similar to the ‘men explain history’ or the victor writes the story
-	white… Asian… no mention of Black people?
-	“It matters because the tech sector has an increasingly powerful reach in how we live and work and communicate and learn. It matters ideologically. If the tech sector drives out women, if it excludes people of color, that matters for jobs, sure. But it matters in terms of the projects undertaken, the problems tackled, the “solutions” designed and developed.” Great point!!
-	“That word “privilege,” for example, has an interesting dual meaning. We use it to refer to the advantages that are are afforded to some people and not to others: male privilege, white privilege. But when it comes to tech, we make that advantage explicit. We actually embed that status into the software’s processes. “Privileges” in tech refer to who has the ability to use or control certain features of a piece of software. Administrator privileges. Teacher privileges. (Students rarely have privileges in ed-tech. Food for thought.)”
-	Template part was really interesting, esp in regards to the segmenting/limiting of identities
-	“Perhaps education needs reminding of this: we don't have to adopt tools that serve business goals or administrative purposes, particularly when they are to the detriment of scholarship and/or student agency - technologies that surveil and control and restrict, for example, under the guise of "safety" - that gets trotted out from time to time - but that have never ever been about students' needs at all." Especially with online learning, some professors and teachers want webcames on at all times, and some schools require an additional webcam to prove that they're not cheating. While I understand that cheating is a real issue that educators face, is it really necessary to require constant 360-degree supervision to ensure that? The culture of power dynamics and punishment that that creates is incredibly unhealthy. Most surveillance technologies also don't take into account neurodivergency - many behaviours (moving, eye roving, etc.) that are assumed to mean cheating in neurotypical people are just natural behaviours to people who are neurodivergent, but would likely be misunderstood and assumed to be cheating even when it is not.

## Class ##
This week's class featured a lecture on code, and an interesting experiment using the Commodore Vic-20 for coding. It was cool to see, but more interesting was the fact that the simulated keyboard and instructions were only useable for English-language or Romance-language based keyboards. Classmates with English, French, and Spanish keyboards could participate, but a classmate with an Arabic keyboard could not, as the commands did not map out in the same way.
