---
layout: post
title: DIGH5000 - Weeks 1
---
# Week 1 #
This is the first of my blogs for DIGH 5000. 

**Notes on using Hypothes.is:**
I actually really enjoyed using hypothes.is to comment on readings - it was helpful to read my classmates' comments as I went through the article, and I feel like it improved both my understanding and my questioning of the reading. My frustration with Hypothes.is comes from exporting the comments. Our prof suggested that we use Jon Udell's annotation exporter (https://jonudell.info/h/facet/?max=50) which allows you to gather annotations for both private and public groups (private group annotation requires the use of a Hypothes.is API token, generated here: https://hypothes.is/account/developer). It worked well for me, and gathered all of my private annotations (which was what I wanted), but the way it is laid out in HTML is difficult to read/just less pleasant to engage with. I prefer logging into Hypothes.is and just looking at my user account (which also generates all public and private annotations, and sorts them by webpage). The way it formats my annotations (with the original text in light grey block quote and then my annotations in black) is significantly easier to read (and therefore refer to quickly during class discussion). Especially since the exporting of the API is just 'saving' the webpage (and since you can do that to the Hypothes.is account page too), is there really a difference or benefit for why I should use the API? At this point in my limited experience with Hypothes.is, this second way of gathering annotations seems vastly easier, and far preferable, at least for myself. Maybe in the future I'll figure out why the other generator is considered more useful?

**Side note:** This 'computer-y' font (I think it's Consolas?) is really fun to write in, and makes me feel accomplished and hacker-y. Maybe I should use it for other classes' reading notes to motivate myself to focus. 
